An example of using web services with Virtel Integration
========================================================

Web services are one of the foundation blocks of the Services Oriented
Architecture blue print. This blue print forms the basis on which many
of today’s e-commerce infrastructures are built, but what is a web
services? Simply put, web services are discoverable services that are
made available from a business's web server for web users or other
web-connected programs to use. Client programs or systems interact with
the web service using SOAP (Simple Object Access Protocol) messages,
which are conveyed using the standardized protocols of HTTP with XML
serialization. The support web services or operations, message formats
and data structures supported by a web service are described by an XML
document using Web Service Data Language (WSDL). Web services are
discoverable through UDDI servers or equivalent. UDDI (Universal
Description, Discovery, and Integration) is an XML based registry for
businesses worldwide to list themselves on the Internet. Its ultimate
goal is to streamline online transactions by enabling companies to find
one another on the Web and make their systems interoperable for
e-commerce. Once a web service has been identified it can be used by
exploiting the contents of the published WSDL. When using web services,
message exchange is through the open and standardized SOAP format. As an
example, a program wishing to know the current exchange rate between two
currencies can send a SOAP message request to a web service provider and
the results will be returned in a SOAP message response.

In this newsletter we demonstrate how Virtel can interface between a
legacy batch application and a web service to retrieve the exchange rate
between two currencies. The exchange rate web service is provided by a
web service hosted by
`www.webservicex.net <http://www.webservicex.net>`__.

An overview of the service is displayed below.

|image0|

Figure 1 - Overview of web services elements.

Breaking down the individual actions we can anaylze the components
involved.

1. Connection to the Virtel Server is through a batch application. In
   this case we are using REXX to connect to the Virtel server using
   REXX socket fuctions. The batch application runs as a batch task
   invoking TCPIP to initialize and connect a socket to VIRTEL. The
   batch application sends a URL request to VIRTEL, effectively
   emulatiing a browser. The URL request identifies the VIRTEL line,
   template and transaction. Virtel is unaware that it is conversing
   with a batch program. The following is the JCL that invokes the REXX
   batch application.

    //LIBS JCLLIB ORDER=SPTHOLT.VIRTEL.REXX

    //\*

    //\* LINE 41002 CLIHOST

    //\* LINE 41102 EDSHOST

    //\* LINE 41001 W2HHOST

    //\*

    //CLIENT EXEC ISPF,HLQ=ISP

    PROFILE PREFIX(SPTHOLT)

    ISPSTART CMD(%RXCVIRT)

    //REQUESTS DD \*

    192.168.170.30:41102 /ws1.html+ws3?FromCurrency=EUR&ToCurrency=GBP

    /\*

When running the REXX batch application the following URL is sent to
Virtel:-

SEND-> **GET /WS1.HTML+WS3?FROMCURRENCY=EUR&TOCURRENCY=GBP**

HTTP/1.1 Host: 192.168.170.30:41002

Connection: keep-Accept:text/html,application/xhtml+xml,

application/xml;q=0.9,image/webp,\*/\*;q=0.8

Read from 192.168.170.30

Virtel IP Address: 192.168.170.30

LINE: HTTP-E

Port: 41102

Template: WS1.HTML

Transaction: WS3

Parameters: FROMCURRENCY=EUR,TOCURRENCY=GBP

1. When Virtel receives the URL it invokes the transaction associated
   with the Line related to the IP address and port. In this case it is
   line E-HTTP which has an entry point of EDSPOINT. Within that entry
   point, transaction WS3 is defined which has an initial scenario of
   SCENRATE. It is this initial scenario that connects to the web
   service, sends and receives the relevant SOAP messages and returns
   the results to the batch application. This is an example of Virtel’s
   web integration.

    |image1|

Figure 2 - User elements

    The user elements involved in this stage of the transaction are the
    batch application, REXX code RXCVIRT, the html template WS1.HTML
    that Virtel will return, the presentation module code SCENRATE and
    the SOAP message template exchange.xml . The template will contain
    the response from the web service. Let’s take a look at these user
    elements. The template looks like this:-

    **WS1.HTML**

    <!DOCTYPE html>

    <!--

    To change this license header, choose License Headers in Project
    Properties.

    To change this template file, choose Tools \| Templates

    and open the template in the editor.

    -->

    <html>

    <head>

    <!--VIRTEL start="{{{" end="}}}" -->

    <title>Web Services Example 1</title>

    <meta charset="UTF-8">

    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width,
    initial-scale=1.0">

    </head>

    <body>

    Answer is {{{CURRENT-VALUE-OF "CANSWER"}}}

    </body>

    </html>

    The Virtel tag language is embedded in the html element to obtain
    the contents of the variable CANSWER which will contain the results
    from the web service. This is an example of the Virtel Web Access
    toolkit. This user element is used at the end of the scenario when
    Virtel sends the response to the initial URL that was initial posted
    by the REXX batch application. If we trace the Virtel line E-HTTP
    when we run the batch application we can see the data flow.

    **Outbound Message from batch application**

    E-HTTP HTTP REQUEST FROM 192.168.170.030:02027 13:03:57.12

    00000 47455420 2F575331 2E48544D 4C2B5753 333F4652 4F4D4355 5252454E
    43593D45 \*GET /WS1.HTML+WS3?FROMCURRENCY=E\*

    00020 55522654 4F435552 52454E43 593D4742 50202020 20202020 20202020
    20202020 \*UR&TOCURRENCY=GBP \*

    00040 48545450 2F312E31 0D0A486F 73743A20 3139322E 3136382E 3137302E
    33303A34 \*HTTP/1.1..Host: 192.168.170.30:4\*

    00060 31303032 0D0A436F 6E6E6563 74696F6E 3A206B65 65702D61 6C697665
    0D0A4163 \*1002..Connection: keep-alive..Ac\*

    00080 63657074 3A207465 78742F68 746D6C2C 6170706C 69636174 696F6E2F
    7868746D \*cept: text/html,application/xhtm\*

    000A0 6C2B786D 6C2C6170 706C6963 6174696F 6E2F786D 6C3B713D 302E392C
    696D6167 \*l+xml,application/xml;q=0.9,imag\*

    000C0 652F7765 62702C2A 2F2A3B71 3D302E38 0D0A0D0A
    \*e/webp,\*/\*;q=0.8.... \*

    **Inbound Message flow to batch application **

    E-HTTP HTTP RESPONSE TO 192.168.170.030:02027 13:03:57.62

    00000 48545450 2F312E31 20323030 204F6B0D 0A536572 7665723A 20566972
    74656C2F \*HTTP/1.1 200 Ok..Server: Virtel/\*

    00020 342E3534 0D0A4461 74653A20 53756E2C 20323220 4D617220 32303135
    2031323A \*4.54..Date: Sun, 22 Mar 2015 12:\*

    00040 30333A35 3720474D 54200D0A 45787069 7265733A 20300D0A 436F6E74
    656E742D \*03:57 GMT ..Expires: 0..Content-\*

    00060 6C656E67 74683A20 30303030 30303037 0D0A436F 6E74656E 742D7479
    70653A20 \*length: 00000007..Content-type: \*

    00080 74657874 2F68746D 6C0D0A0D 0A30302E 37323336
    \*text/html....00.7236 \*

    *Note. The inbound message is not using the template WS1.HTML in the
    above example, but rather just returning the CANSWER variable.*

1. The scenario associated with the transaction WS3 is a Virtel initial
   scenario. It is defined with the following attributes:-

    |image2|

Figure 3 - WS3 Transaction definition

    The key points are the *Application type 2*, a VIRTEL program, and
    *TIOA at logon* set to &/S which initiates the VIRTEL presentation
    module SCENRATE that contains the INITIAL scenario. It is the
    scenario within this presentation module that does all the work. See
    Appendix A for a complete list of the presentation module SCENRATE.
    This module must be assembled. The presentation module contains only
    one scenario, an initial scenario which is invoked when an &/S order
    is found in a TIOA connection script (see “Connection /
    Disconnection Scripts” in the *VIRTEL Connectivity Reference*
    manual).

    The layout of the scenario within the presentation module SCENRATE
    can be defined as an output structure, defined between the OUTPUT
    MAP$ and OUTPUT MAP$ END, followed by the SCENARIO logic. The logic
    steps of the scenario can be broken down thus:-

a) Create variables from URL – FROMCURRENCY, TOCURRENCY

b) Set variable SITE to URL of web services provider and access port.

    `www.webservices.net:80 <http://www.webservices.net:80>`__

a) Read in SOAP template from Virtel TRSF file – exchange.xml.

b) Build options file for $POST SOAP request – OPTION$ in Virtel
   variable REQP.

c) Send SOAP request to web services provider.

d) Test results and depending on return code take appropriate action.
   This is achieved using the Virtel CASE$ statement:

    NOTOK – Place error message in Virtel variable ANSWER

    OK – Convert ANSWER variable from ASCII to EBCDIC

a) Copy Virtel ANSWER variable to a COMMAREA as mapped by the OUTPUT map
   area.

b) Copy the formatted COMMAREA to a Virtel variable called CANSWER.

c) Send template with CANSWER. This will cause the tagged area of the
   template WS1.HTML to be populated with the CANSWER variable or just
   send CANSWER variable.

d) Disconnect the session with the batch application.

The user elements involved in the SOAP message request is template
exchange.xml. The XML file looks like:-

**exchange.xml**

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!--VIRTEL start="{{{" end="}}}"
-->{{{ SET-CONTENT-TYPE "text/xml"}}}{{{SET-OUTPUT-ENCODING-UTF-8
""}}}{{{SET-LOCAL-OPTIONS (XML-ESCAPES)}}}

<soap12:Envelope xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
xmlns:xsd="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema"
xmlns:soap12="http://www.w3.org/2003/05/soap-envelope">

<soap12:Body>

<ConversionRate xmlns="http://www.webserviceX.NET/">

<FromCurrency>{{{TRIMMED-VALUE-OF "FromCurrency"}}}</FromCurrency>

<ToCurrency>{{{TRIMMED-VALUE-OF "ToCurrency"}}}</ToCurrency>

</ConversionRate>

</soap12:Body>

</soap12:Envelope>

The scenario takes the parameters from the URL and places them in Virtel
variables. This is an example of how Virtel’s integration works; through
a combination of scenario programmable elements and an Initial scenario.
The following is an extract from the scenario showing the relevant COPY$
statements:-

    START SET$ ENCODING,UTF-8,'IBM1147'

    COPY$ INPUT-TO-VARIABLE,FIELD='FROMCURRENCY', \*

    VAR='FROMCURRENCY', \*

    TYPE=REPLACE

    \*

    COPY$ INPUT-TO-VARIABLE,FIELD='TOCURRENCY', \*

    VAR='TOCURRENCY', \*

    TYPE=REPLACE

\*

Again, Virtel tag language is used to populate the template with the
correct information for the web services request. The “TRIMMED-VALUE-OF”
of statements extract the values from the Virtel variables and place
them in the XML SOAP message template.

The OPTION$ and SEND$ complete the SOAP message, sending it to the web
service via the O-HHTP line, as identified in the SEND$ statement:-

    SENDREQ OPTION$ FOR-HTTP,(METHOD,'POST'),(SITE,'\*SITE'),(TO, \*

    '/CurrencyConvertor.asmx'), \*

    (HEADER,'Content-Type: application/soap+xml'), \*

    (FILE-OUT,'REQFILE'),(FILE-IN, \*

    'ANSWER'),(RET-CODE,'RETCODE'),TOVAR='REQP'

    SEND$ TO-LINE,LINE='O-HTTP',PARMS='REQP',MAXTIME=1000, \*

ERROR=NOTOK

An analysis of the VIRTEL LOG can see the request being sent out to the
web services provider.

13.02.15 STC05752 VIR0200I LINE=E-HTTP,TRACE

13.02.15 STC05752 VIR0062I HTTP-EDS TRACE ACTIVE

13.03.57 STC05752 VIRT906I HTTP-EDS SOCKET 00020000 CALL FROM
192.168.170.030:02027

13.03.57 STC05752 VIRHT51I HTTP-EDS CONNECTING EHLOC015 TO
192.168.170.030:02027

**13.03.57 STC05752 VIRHT51I HTTP-OUT CONNECTING EHLOC015 TO
173.201.044.188:00080 **

**13.03.57 STC05752 VIRT922W HTTP-OUT SOCKET 00000000 ENDED FOR
173.201.044.188:00080 **

13.03.57 STC05752 VIR0052I EHLOC015 DISCONNECTED AFTER 0 MINUTES

13.03.57 STC05752 VIRT922W HTTP-EDS SOCKET 00020000 ENDED FOR
192.168.170.030:020

The CASE$ statement following the SEND$ tests the return code from the
web service and determines the appropriate action. Return codes
beginning with 2 or 5 are accepted as OK, whereas anything else is
considered not OK. The ANSWER variable is filled with the data returned
from the web service:-

    CASE$ 'RETCODE',(BEGIN,'2',OK),(BEGIN,'5',OK), \*

    ELSE=NOTOK

    \*

    NOTOK COPY$ VALUE-TO-VARIABLE,VAR='ANSWER',VALUE='KO',TYPE=REPLACE

    OK EQU \*

The ANSWER variable contains the result from the web service. This is
converted to EBCDIC and then copied to the COMMAREA variable. The
COMMAREA variable is then copied to a Virtel CANSWER variable and passed
back to the batch application through the template WS1.HTML:-

    CONVERT$ ASCII-TO-EBCDIC,VAR='ANSWER'

    OUTPUT MAP$ FROM-VARIABLE,VAR='ANSWER' Answer -> Commarea

    OUTPUT MAP$ TO-VARIABLE,VAR='CANSWER' Commarea -> Variable

    CONVERT$ EBCDIC-TO-ASCII,VAR='CANSWER'

    SEND$ AS-ANSWER,VAR='CANSWER',TYPE='text/html'

ACTION$ DISCONNECT

The COMMAREA variable is a special variable that Virtel can use to
interface with application programs that communicate through a COMMAREA
structure, such as CICS or IMS. The Virtel modernisation and integration
tool kits provide significate program capability to utilize a COMMAREA
intermediate buffer in processing requests and returning responses
between Virtel and COMMAREA related programs.

See “Virtel Modernisation and Virtel Integration chapters “ in the
*VIRTEL Web Access Guide* manual) for more information.

In the Virtel line trace for the line O-HTTP the SOAP messages can be
traced:-

**Outbound SOAP message to web services server**

\*POST /CurrencyConvertor.asmx HTT\*

\*P/1.1..Host: www.webservicex.net\*

\*:80..Content-Type: application/s\*

\*oap+xml..Content-length: 0000042\*

\*3....<?xml version="1.0" encodin\*

\*g="UTF-8"?>..<soap12:Envelope xm\*

\*lns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/\*

\*XMLSchema-instance" xmlns:xsd="h\*

\*ttp://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema"\*

\* xmlns:soap12="http://www.w3.org\*

\*/2003/05/soap-envelope">.. <soa\*

\*p12:Body>.. <ConversionRate x\*

\*mlns="http://www.webserviceX.NET\*

\*/">.. <FromCurrency>EUR</Fr\*

\*omCurrency>.. <ToCurrency>G\*

\*BP</ToCurrency>.. </Conversio\*

\*nRate>.. </soap12:Body>..</soap\*

\*12:Envelope> \*

**Inbound SOAP message from web services server**

\*HTTP/1.1 200 OK..Cache-Control: \*

\*private, max-age=0..Content-Leng\*

\*th: 380..Content-Type: applicati\*

\*on/soap+xml; charset=utf-8..Serv\*

\*er: Microsoft-IIS/7.0..X-AspNet-\*

\*Version: 4.0.30319..X-Powered-By\*

\*: ASP.NET..Date: Sat, 21 Mar 201\*

\*5 15:58:29 GMT....<?xml version=\*

\*"1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><soap:En\*

\*velope xmlns:soap="http://www.w3\*

\*.org/2003/05/soap-envelope" xmln\*

\*s:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XM\*

\*LSchema-instance" xmlns:xsd="htt\*

\*p://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema"><\*bastet

\*soap:Body><ConversionRateRespons\*

\*e xmlns="http://www.webserviceX.\*

\*NET/"><ConversionRateResult>0.72\*

\*36</ConversionRateResult></Conve\*

\*rsionRateResponse></soap:Body></\*

\*soap:Envelope> \*

1. The web services provided by
   `www.webserviceX.net <http://www.webserviceX.net>`__ can be
   discovered and exploited by analysis of the associated WSDLs. The
   home page of the site lists the most popular web services that the
   provider supports:-

    |image3|

    The Web Service that the batch application invokes is Currency
    Calculator. This web service provides realtime exchange rate data
    for a large number of global currencies. If we view the WSDL of the
    Currency convertor we can see the operations provided by this
    particular service. The WSDL can be seen by using the following
    URL:-

    http://www.webservicex.net/CurrencyConvertor.asmx?WSDL

    In the service element of the WSDL we can see that the web service
    supports different protocols to the same service, that being
    CurrencyConvertor. The web service supports SOAP 1.0, SOAP 1.2, HTTP
    GET and HTTP POST. In this example the SOAP 1.2 POST implementation
    of CurrencyConvertor is being used:-

    <wsdl:service name="CurrencyConvertor">

    <wsdl:port name="CurrencyConvertorSoap" binding="tns:CurrencyConvertorSoap">

    <soap:address location="http://www.webservicex.net/CurrencyConvertor.asmx"/>

    </wsdl:port>

    <wsdl:port name="CurrencyConvertorSoap12" binding="tns:CurrencyConvertorSoap12">

    <soap12:address location="http://www.webservicex.net/CurrencyConvertor.asmx"/>

    </wsdl:port>

    <wsdl:port name="CurrencyConvertorHttpGet" binding="tns:CurrencyConvertorHttpGet">

    <http:address location="http://www.webservicex.net/CurrencyConvertor.asmx"/>

    </wsdl:port>

    <wsdl:port name="CurrencyConvertorHttpPost" binding="tns:CurrencyConvertorHttpPost">

    <http:address location="http://www.webservicex.net/CurrencyConvertor.asmx"/>

    </wsdl:port>

    </wsdl:service>

    It is not the intention of the newsletter to delve into the WSDL
    structure, there are many excellent books, journals and internet
    pages devoted to this subject. The following URL,

    http://www.webservicex.net/CurrencyConvertor.asmx?op=ConversionRate

    provides details on the structure on the SOAP request and response
    messages. This is useful for building the exchange.xml template and
    for analysing the response message within the scenario.

    SOAP 1.2 Example

    The following is a sample SOAP 1.2 request and response. The
    placeholders shown need to be replaced with actual values.

    REQUEST message

    POST /CurrencyConvertor.asmx HTTP/1.1

    Host: www.webservicex.net

    Content-Type: application/soap+xml; charset=utf-8

    Content-Length: length

    <?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>

    <soap12:Envelope
    xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
    xmlns:xsd="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema"
    xmlns:soap12="http://www.w3.org/2003/05/soap-envelope">

    <soap12:Body>

    <ConversionRate xmlns="http://www.webserviceX.NET/">

    <FromCurrency>**AFA**\ </FromCurrency>

    <ToCurrency>**DZD**\ </ToCurrency>

    </ConversionRate>

    </soap12:Body>

    </soap12:Envelope>

    RESPONSE message

    <?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>

    <soap12:Envelope
    xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
    xmlns:xsd="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema"
    xmlns:soap12="http://www.w3.org/2003/05/soap-envelope">

    <soap12:Body>

    <ConversionRateResponse xmlns="http://www.webserviceX.NET/">

    <ConversionRateResult>double</ConversionRateResult>

    </ConversionRateResponse>

    </soap12:Body>

    </soap12:Envelope>

    .

1. After receiving the SOAP response the scenario will search for the
   element ConversionRateResult and extract the value and placing in to
   the Virtel ANSWER variable. If there is an error, the
   ConversionRateResult value will contain details of the web services
   error. The scenario will copy this error message to the ANSWER
   variable. In both cases the results are contained within the
   ConversionRateResult element. These operations are executed through
   the MAP$ EVENTUAL-AREA statement:-

    MAP$ EVENTUAL-AREA,FROM-CONSTANT,'0',WHEN=(ELEMENT, \*

    'ConversionRateResult'),EVENT='Response',LENGTH=6

    The RESPONSE format area is designated by the O00000001 MAP$ BEGIN,
    EVENT=RESPONSE and terminated by the O00000001 MAP$ END. The value
    is mapped by the MAP$ AREA,WITH ‘ConversionRateResult’ statement:-

    O0000001 MAP$ BEGIN,EVENT='Response'

    MAP$ AREA,WITH='ConversionRateResult',TYPE=9,LENGTH=6

    O0000001 MAP$ END

    If the response message from the web service does not contain the
    element ConversionRateResult then the OFAULT area is mapped out
    within an XML structure in preparation to return to the batch
    application. The ‘fault’ elements will be extracted from the SOAP
    response:-

    OFAULT MAP$ BEGIN,EVENT='Fault'

    MAP$ AREA,WITH='faultcode',TYPE=X,LENGTH=32

    MAP$ AREA,WITH='faultstring',TYPE=X,LENGTH=32

    MAP$ AREA,WITH='faultactor',TYPE=X,LENGTH=32

    MAP$ AREA,FROM-CONSTANT,' ',LENGTH=32

    OFAULT MAP$ END

1. When the batch application receives the response to the original URI
   request the answer will be contained within the WS1.HTML template,
   where the CANSWER area has been captured. The first character of the
   CANSWER area, as posted by the scenario, will either be a 0 or a 1. A
   zero indicates success, a one indicates an error:-

    Result:

    !DOCTYPE html>

    <!-- To change this license header, choose License Headers in
    Project Properties. To change this template file, choose Tools \|
    Templates and open the template in the editor. -->

    <html>

    <head>

    <title>Web Services Example 1</title>

    <meta charset="UTF-8">

    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width,
    initial-scale=1.0">

    </head>

    <body>

    **Answer is 00.7312** *[The first zero is a return code]*

    </body>

    </html>

    Instead of returning the template, the scenario can just return the
    CANSWER variable within a HTTP response. This is achieved by adding
    the following three lines to the scenario:-

    CONVERT$ EBCDIC-TO-ASCII,VAR='CANSWER'

    SEND$ AS-ANSWER,VAR='CANSWER',TYPE='text/html'

    ACTION$ DISCONNECT

    Instead of returning the template, the HTTP response will now just
    contain the variable CANSWER, which is all that is required by the
    batch application.

ISPSTART CMD(%RXCVIRT)

Result: 0.7312

    Note.

    All the source related to this newsletter can be downloaded from the
    Virtel FTP web site. The file name is zostn2501506.zip.

    Appendix A

    SCENRATE SCREENS APPL=SCENRATE,EXEC=NO

    SCENARIO INITIAL

    \*

    \* Output structure definition

    \*

    OUTPUT MAP$ BEGIN

    MAP$ EVENTUAL-AREA,FROM-CONSTANT,'0',WHEN=(ELEMENT, \*

    'ConversionRateResult'),EVENT='Response',LENGTH=6

    MAP$ ELSETHEN-AREA,FROM-CONSTANT,'1',EVENT='Fault',LENGTH=1

    OENV MAP$ BEGIN,TOP,WITH='soap:Envelope'

    \*HEADER MAP$ BEGIN,WITH='soap:Header'

    \*HEADER MAP$ END

    OBODY MAP$ BEGIN,WITH='soap:Body'

    \*

    OFAULT MAP$ BEGIN,EVENT='Fault'

    MAP$ AREA,WITH='faultcode',TYPE=X,LENGTH=32

    MAP$ AREA,WITH='faultstring',TYPE=X,LENGTH=32

    MAP$ AREA,WITH='faultactor',TYPE=X,LENGTH=32

    MAP$ AREA,FROM-CONSTANT,' ',LENGTH=32

    OFAULT MAP$ END

    \*

    O0000001 MAP$ BEGIN,EVENT='Response'

    MAP$ AREA,WITH='ConversionRateResult',TYPE=9,LENGTH=6

    O0000001 MAP$ END

    \*

    OBODY MAP$ END

    OENV MAP$ END

    OUTPUT MAP$ END

    \*

    START SET$ ENCODING,UTF-8,'IBM1147'

    COPY$ INPUT-TO-VARIABLE,FIELD='FROMCURRENCY', \*

    VAR='FROMCURRENCY', \*

    TYPE=REPLACE

    \*

    COPY$ INPUT-TO-VARIABLE,FIELD='TOCURRENCY', \*

    VAR='TOCURRENCY', \*

    TYPE=REPLACE

    \*

    COPY$ VALUE-TO-VARIABLE,VAR='SITE', \*

    VALUE='www.webservicex.net:80', \*

    TYPE=REPLACE

    \*

    COPY$ OUTPUT-FILE-TO-VARIABLE,FILE='exchange.xml', \*

    VAR='REQFILE'

    \*

    SENDREQ OPTION$ FOR-HTTP,(METHOD,'POST'),(SITE,'\*SITE'),(TO, \*

    '/CurrencyConvertor.asmx'), \*

    (HEADER,'Content-Type: application/soap+xml'), \*

    (FILE-OUT,'REQFILE'),(FILE-IN, \*

    'ANSWER'),(RET-CODE,'RETCODE'),TOVAR='REQP'

    SEND$ TO-LINE,LINE='O-HTTP',PARMS='REQP',MAXTIME=1000, \*

    ERROR=NOTOK

    CASE$ 'RETCODE',(BEGIN,'2',OK),(BEGIN,'5',OK), \*

    ELSE=NOTOK

    \*

    NOTOK COPY$ VALUE-TO-VARIABLE,VAR='ANSWER',VALUE='KO',TYPE=REPLACE

    OK EQU \*

    CONVERT$ ASCII-TO-EBCDIC,VAR='ANSWER'

    OUTPUT MAP$ FROM-VARIABLE,VAR='ANSWER' Answer -> Commarea

    OUTPUT MAP$ TO-VARIABLE,VAR='CANSWER' Commarea -> Variable

    CONVERT$ EBCDIC-TO-ASCII,VAR='CANSWER'

    SEND$ AS-ANSWER,VAR='CANSWER',TYPE='text/html'

    ACTION$ DISCONNECT

    \*

    SCENARIO END

    SCRNEND

    END

.. |image0| image:: C:\Users\Ed\Documents\GitHub\Virtel\docs\manuals\newsletters\TN201506\images/media/image1.jpg
   :width: 6.26806in
   :height: 3.52569in
.. |image1| image:: C:\Users\Ed\Documents\GitHub\Virtel\docs\manuals\newsletters\TN201506\images/media/image2.jpg
   :width: 6.26806in
   :height: 3.52569in
.. |image2| image:: C:\Users\Ed\Documents\GitHub\Virtel\docs\manuals\newsletters\TN201506\images/media/image3.png
   :width: 6.26806in
   :height: 4.04236in
.. |image3| image:: C:\Users\Ed\Documents\GitHub\Virtel\docs\manuals\newsletters\TN201506\images/media/image4.png
   :width: 6.26806in
   :height: 3.17778in
