.. _tn202501:

What’s new in Virtel 4.63 Beta Release
====================================

The following newsletter summaries the new features and maintenance updates that can be found in Virtel Release 4.63 Beta @ update level 6200. 

New features
------------

Connectivity Enhancements: TN3270 Client
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The Virtel server now integrates a TN3270 client which enables Telnet bounces towards other Telnet servers such as remote z/OS systems, z/VM systems, OSA-ICC Consoles, IBMi systems (AS400), TPF etc.
This is further documented in the Virtel Connectivity Guide (Section - TN3270 Lines)

Security Enhancements
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* The Virtel SSO Gateway activates external authentication to Mainframe applications (AD, OIDS, SAML...) for end-users, allowing them to connect to Mainframe applications using their Windows/AD password.
* The Virtel session tokens have been re-engineered, in order to be harder to hack
* It is now possible to set customized HTTP Security Headers (Strict Transport Security, etc.)for all pages and files served by the Virtel web server. This allows the Virtel web server to be compliant with the most recent security standards.

UX Enhancements
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Improved support for OMVS: command line is preserved

Administration Enhancements
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- New administrator panel to kill active Virtel sessions
- Search field introduced on several panels, to improve management of large configurations
- Simplified CSS customization for creation of new colour schemes
- New LU Nailing feature, integrated into the Virtel ARBO file (no longer relies on RACF groups)

Migration considerations
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

**End of support for COMPATIBILITY mode**

The "COMPATIBILITY" mode for w2hparm, that was introduced in version 4.54 to provide seamless migration of V4.53 w2hparm to V4.54. w2hparm is no longer supported from V4.61 onwards. It is recommended to switch to "Option" mode before migrating later releases.

**6046 DCB value of STATS file changed to 255**

This has been increased to 255. Reallocate any STATS file with a LRECL=255,RECFM=VB,BLKSIZE=4096

**Version support**

Versions of Virtel older than V4.59 are no longer supported. It is recommended to migrate to the latest release.

**ARBO changes**

- There have been no changes to the ARBO which would require migration from V4.60 or V4.59. Customers who are migrating from older releases should review the “What’s new in Virtel V4.XX” newsletters to determine applicable migration actions for new distributed features. Depending on requirements not all actions may be applicable. These newsletters are available online at https://virtel.readthedocs.io/en/latest/ 

List of updates:
----------------

Installation Changes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- 6043


Presentation
^^^^^^^^^^^^

**6041 Abend S0C4-38 after SNAP**

Correct ABEND S0C4 in SNAP processing

Base Components
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

**6041 Abend S0C4-38 after SNAP**

Scenario Language
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

**6053 IF$ SCREEN-IS-UNMODIFIED,THEN=FAIL incorrectly returned TRUE**

When processing a multi-message screen buffer, a erroneous value of TRUE was being set in certain conditions.

Other Enhancements
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
**6054 Update SMFREXXL Samplib member**

Pass in SMF record type as argument. Defaults to record type 223.

New features
------------

**6049 CRYPTS= Encrypt Virtel and Ajax session codes**

A new VIRTCT parameter 
.. 

    CRYPTS=AES-256|AES-192|AES-128|NONE
    
..    

When CRYPTS= is set to NONE, or defaulted, session codes are not encrypted. When CRYPT=AES-... is coded, Virtel session codes will be encrypted. The length of the session code is now 24 bytes instead of the previous 16 bytes.

